docs/src/content/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: SQL Agent for Laravel
description: A self-learning text-to-SQL agent that converts natural language questions into SQL queries using LLMs.
template: splash
hero:
  tagline: A self-learning text-to-SQL agent that converts natural language questions into SQL queries using LLMs.
  image:
    file: ../../assets/logo.svg
  actions:
    - text: Get Started
      link: /sql-agent/getting-started/introduction/
      icon: right-arrow
    - text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/knobik/sql-agent
      icon: external
      variant: minimal
---

import { Card, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Why This Package?

Raw LLMs writing SQL hit a wall fast — schemas lack meaning, types are misleading, tribal knowledge is missing, and the same errors repeat endlessly. The root cause is **missing context and missing memory**.

<CardGrid>
  <Card title="Knowledge Base" icon="open-book">
    Curated table metadata, business rules, and query patterns give the LLM the context it needs to write accurate SQL.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Self-Learning" icon="rocket">
    When a query fails and the agent recovers, it saves that learning. Next time, it knows.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Multi-LLM Support" icon="puzzle">
    Any provider supported by [Prism PHP](https://prismphp.com) — OpenAI, Anthropic, Ollama, Gemini, Mistral, xAI, and more.
  </Card>
  <Card title="SQL Safety" icon="approve-check">
    Configurable guardrails prevent destructive operations with statement restrictions and row limits.
  </Card>
</CardGrid>

## Quick Start

```bash
composer require knobik/sql-agent
php artisan sql-agent:install
```

Then configure your LLM provider in `.env` and start asking questions:

```php
use Knobik\SqlAgent\Facades\SqlAgent;

$response = SqlAgent::run('How many users signed up this month?');
echo $response->answer;
```

See the [Installation](/sql-agent/getting-started/installation/) guide for full setup instructions.

## Features

- **Multi-Database Support** — MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, and SQL Server
- **Multiple Search Drivers** — Database full-text search or pgvector semantic search
- **Agentic Loop** — Tool calling to introspect schema, run queries, and refine results
- **Livewire Chat UI** — Ready-to-use chat interface with conversation history
- **Evaluation Framework** — Test your agent's accuracy with automated evaluations

Commit message:

Add detailed explanation of the agent's architecture and workflow
- Expanded documentation with sections on context assembly, tool-calling loop, and self-learning feedback.
- Provided step-by-step breakdown of how SQL Agent processes queries and iteratively improves over time.
- Improved onboarding by linking to relevant guides for deeper understanding.

docs/src/content/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: SQL Agent for Laravel
description: A self-learning text-to-SQL agent that converts natural language questions into SQL queries using LLMs.
template: splash
hero:
  tagline: A self-learning text-to-SQL agent that converts natural language questions into SQL queries using LLMs.
  image:
    file: ../../assets/logo.svg
  actions:
    - text: Get Started
      link: /sql-agent/getting-started/introduction/
      icon: right-arrow
    - text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/knobik/sql-agent
      icon: external
      variant: minimal
---

import { Card, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Why This Package?

Raw LLMs writing SQL hit a wall fast — schemas lack meaning, types are misleading, tribal knowledge is missing, and the same errors repeat endlessly. The root cause is **missing context and missing memory**.

<CardGrid>
  <Card title="Knowledge Base" icon="open-book">
    Curated table metadata, business rules, and query patterns give the LLM the context it needs to write accurate SQL.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Self-Learning" icon="rocket">
    When a query fails and the agent recovers, it saves that learning. Next time, it knows.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Multi-LLM Support" icon="puzzle">
    Any provider supported by [Prism PHP](https://prismphp.com) — OpenAI, Anthropic, Ollama, Gemini, Mistral, xAI, and more.
  </Card>
  <Card title="SQL Safety" icon="approve-check">
    Configurable guardrails prevent destructive operations with statement restrictions and row limits.
  </Card>
</CardGrid>

## How It Works

1. **Assemble context** — The agent retrieves relevant table metadata, business rules, query patterns, and past learnings based on the question
2. **Enter tool loop** — The LLM iteratively introspects schema, searches for additional knowledge, executes SQL, and refines results
3. **Learn and improve** — Errors become learnings, successful queries become reusable patterns — both feed back into future context assembly

See the [Introduction](/sql-agent/getting-started/introduction/) for a detailed architecture overview.

## Quick Start

```bash
composer require knobik/sql-agent
php artisan sql-agent:install
```

Then configure your LLM provider in `.env` and start asking questions:

```php
use Knobik\SqlAgent\Facades\SqlAgent;

$response = SqlAgent::run('How many users signed up this month?');
echo $response->answer;
```

See the [Installation](/sql-agent/getting-started/installation/) guide for full setup instructions.

## Features

- **Multi-Database Support** — MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, and SQL Server
- **Multiple Search Drivers** — Database full-text search or pgvector semantic search
- **Agentic Loop** — Tool calling to introspect schema, run queries, and refine results
- **Livewire Chat UI** — Ready-to-use chat interface with conversation history
- **Evaluation Framework** — Test your agent's accuracy with automated evaluations
