docs/drivers.md, before:

# LLM & Search Drivers

## LLM Drivers

### OpenAI

The default driver. Requires the OpenAI API key.

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-api-key
SQL_AGENT_LLM_DRIVER=openai
SQL_AGENT_OPENAI_MODEL=gpt-4o
```

### Anthropic

Use Claude models from Anthropic.

```env
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-your-api-key
SQL_AGENT_LLM_DRIVER=anthropic
SQL_AGENT_ANTHROPIC_MODEL=claude-sonnet-4-20250514
```

### Ollama

Use local models with Ollama. No API key required.

```env
SQL_AGENT_LLM_DRIVER=ollama
OLLAMA_BASE_URL=http://localhost:11434
SQL_AGENT_OLLAMA_MODEL=llama3.1
```

### Custom Drivers

Implement the `Knobik\SqlAgent\Contracts\LlmDriver` interface:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Llm;

use Generator;
use Knobik\SqlAgent\Contracts\LlmDriver;
use Knobik\SqlAgent\Contracts\LlmResponse;

class CustomLlmDriver implements LlmDriver
{
    public function chat(array $messages, array $tools = []): LlmResponse
    {
        // Your implementation
    }

    public function stream(array $messages, array $tools = []): Generator
    {
        // Your implementation
    }

    public function supportsToolCalling(): bool
    {
        return true;
    }
}
```

Register in a service provider:

```php
$this->app->bind('sql-agent.llm.custom', CustomLlmDriver::class);
```

## Search Drivers

Search drivers are used to find relevant knowledge (table metadata, business rules, query patterns) based on the user's question.

### Database Driver

Uses native database full-text search. No external services required.

```env
SQL_AGENT_SEARCH_DRIVER=database
```

**MySQL:** Uses `MATCH ... AGAINST` with natural language or boolean mode.

**PostgreSQL:** Uses `to_tsvector` and `to_tsquery` for full-text search.

**SQLite:** Falls back to `LIKE` queries (less accurate but functional).

**SQL Server:** Uses `CONTAINS` full-text predicates (requires full-text catalog).

### Scout Driver

Integrates with Laravel Scout for external search engines like Meilisearch or Algolia.

```env
SQL_AGENT_SEARCH_DRIVER=scout
SCOUT_DRIVER=meilisearch
MEILISEARCH_HOST=http://localhost:7700
MEILISEARCH_KEY=your-key
```

Requires `laravel/scout` package:

```bash
composer require laravel/scout
```

### Hybrid Driver

Combines Scout as primary with database as fallback. Useful for reliability.

```env
SQL_AGENT_SEARCH_DRIVER=hybrid
```

Configure in `config/sql-agent.php`:

```php
'hybrid' => [
    'primary' => 'scout',
    'fallback' => 'database',
    'merge_results' => false, // Set true to combine results from both
],
```

Commit message:

Expand documentation with new sections, examples, and configuration options
- Added details on auto-learning, evaluation fields, and Ollama reasoning (`thinking`) mode.
- Enhanced knowledge base structure with use cases, data quality notes, and expanded table examples.
- Introduced `sql-agent:purge` command usage and export functionality for conversations.
- Updated Livewire components, query patterns, and Server-Sent Events (SSE) documentation.
- Refined and standardized JSON/SQL structures for better backward compatibility.

docs/drivers.md, after:

# LLM & Search Drivers

## LLM Drivers

### OpenAI

The default driver. Requires the OpenAI API key.

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-api-key
SQL_AGENT_LLM_DRIVER=openai
SQL_AGENT_OPENAI_MODEL=gpt-4o
```

### Anthropic

Use Claude models from Anthropic.

```env
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-your-api-key
SQL_AGENT_LLM_DRIVER=anthropic
SQL_AGENT_ANTHROPIC_MODEL=claude-sonnet-4-20250514
```

### Ollama

Use local models with Ollama. No API key required.

```env
SQL_AGENT_LLM_DRIVER=ollama
OLLAMA_BASE_URL=http://localhost:11434
SQL_AGENT_OLLAMA_MODEL=llama3.1
```

#### Thinking Mode

Ollama supports a thinking/reasoning mode for models that provide it. Enable via config or environment:

```env
SQL_AGENT_OLLAMA_THINK=true
```

Accepted values: `true`, `false`, or a budget level string (`"low"`, `"medium"`, `"high"`) for models like GPT-OSS that support granular control.

When thinking mode is active, the LLM's internal reasoning is captured and available in the streaming SSE events (`thinking` event) and stored in debug metadata.

#### Tool Support Configuration

Not all Ollama models support tool/function calling. Use `models_with_tool_support` in config to control which models are allowed to use tools:

```php
'ollama' => [
    // ...
    'models_with_tool_support' => null,        // null = all models (default)
    // 'models_with_tool_support' => [],        // empty = no models
    // 'models_with_tool_support' => ['llama3.1', 'qwen2.5'],  // specific models only
],
```

### Custom Drivers

Implement the `Knobik\SqlAgent\Contracts\LlmDriver` interface:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Llm;

use Generator;
use Knobik\SqlAgent\Contracts\LlmDriver;
use Knobik\SqlAgent\Contracts\LlmResponse;

class CustomLlmDriver implements LlmDriver
{
    public function chat(array $messages, array $tools = []): LlmResponse
    {
        // Your implementation
    }

    public function stream(array $messages, array $tools = []): Generator
    {
        // Your implementation
    }

    public function supportsToolCalling(): bool
    {
        return true;
    }
}
```

Register in a service provider:

```php
$this->app->bind('sql-agent.llm.custom', CustomLlmDriver::class);
```

## Search Drivers

Search drivers are used to find relevant knowledge (table metadata, business rules, query patterns) based on the user's question.

### Database Driver

Uses native database full-text search. No external services required.

```env
SQL_AGENT_SEARCH_DRIVER=database
```

**MySQL:** Uses `MATCH ... AGAINST` with natural language or boolean mode.

**PostgreSQL:** Uses `to_tsvector` and `to_tsquery` for full-text search.

**SQLite:** Falls back to `LIKE` queries (less accurate but functional).

**SQL Server:** Uses `CONTAINS` full-text predicates (requires full-text catalog).

### Scout Driver

Integrates with Laravel Scout for external search engines like Meilisearch or Algolia.

```env
SQL_AGENT_SEARCH_DRIVER=scout
SCOUT_DRIVER=meilisearch
MEILISEARCH_HOST=http://localhost:7700
MEILISEARCH_KEY=your-key
```

Requires `laravel/scout` package:

```bash
composer require laravel/scout
```

### Hybrid Driver

Combines Scout as primary with database as fallback. Useful for reliability.

```env
SQL_AGENT_SEARCH_DRIVER=hybrid
```

Configure in `config/sql-agent.php`:

```php
'hybrid' => [
    'primary' => 'scout',
    'fallback' => 'database',
    'merge_results' => false, // Set true to combine results from both
],
```
