docs/events.md, before:

# Events

SqlAgent dispatches events you can listen to for custom behavior.

## SqlErrorOccurred

Dispatched when a SQL query fails.

```php
use Knobik\SqlAgent\Events\SqlErrorOccurred;

class SqlErrorListener
{
    public function handle(SqlErrorOccurred $event): void
    {
        Log::warning('SQL Agent error', [
            'sql' => $event->sql,
            'error' => $event->error,
            'question' => $event->question,
            'connection' => $event->connection,
        ]);
    }
}
```

## LearningCreated

Dispatched when a new learning is created.

```php
use Knobik\SqlAgent\Events\LearningCreated;

class LearningListener
{
    public function handle(LearningCreated $event): void
    {
        // Notify team about new learning
        Notification::send($admins, new NewLearningNotification($event->learning));
    }
}
```

## Registering Listeners

Register listeners in `EventServiceProvider`:

```php
protected $listen = [
    \Knobik\SqlAgent\Events\SqlErrorOccurred::class => [
        \App\Listeners\SqlErrorListener::class,
    ],
    \Knobik\SqlAgent\Events\LearningCreated::class => [
        \App\Listeners\LearningListener::class,
    ],
];
```

Commit message:

Expand documentation with new sections, examples, and configuration options
- Added details on auto-learning, evaluation fields, and Ollama reasoning (`thinking`) mode.
- Enhanced knowledge base structure with use cases, data quality notes, and expanded table examples.
- Introduced `sql-agent:purge` command usage and export functionality for conversations.
- Updated Livewire components, query patterns, and Server-Sent Events (SSE) documentation.
- Refined and standardized JSON/SQL structures for better backward compatibility.

docs/events.md, after:

# Events

SqlAgent dispatches events you can listen to for custom behavior.

## SqlErrorOccurred

Dispatched when a SQL query fails.

```php
use Knobik\SqlAgent\Events\SqlErrorOccurred;

class SqlErrorListener
{
    public function handle(SqlErrorOccurred $event): void
    {
        Log::warning('SQL Agent error', [
            'sql' => $event->sql,
            'error' => $event->error,
            'question' => $event->question,
            'connection' => $event->connection,
        ]);
    }
}
```

> **Note:** SqlAgent automatically registers an `AutoLearnFromError` listener for this event that triggers self-learning when `learning.auto_save_errors` is enabled. You do not need to register it yourself.

## LearningCreated

Dispatched when a new learning is created.

```php
use Knobik\SqlAgent\Events\LearningCreated;

class LearningListener
{
    public function handle(LearningCreated $event): void
    {
        // Notify team about new learning
        Notification::send($admins, new NewLearningNotification($event->learning));
    }
}
```

## Registering Listeners

Register your own listeners in `EventServiceProvider`:

```php
protected $listen = [
    \Knobik\SqlAgent\Events\SqlErrorOccurred::class => [
        \App\Listeners\SqlErrorListener::class,
    ],
    \Knobik\SqlAgent\Events\LearningCreated::class => [
        \App\Listeners\LearningListener::class,
    ],
];
```
